 So I had like four times, right? I thought, hey, I'm pretty good at programming, and then I would see you're given a hard task or cut feedback, and I said no, there's another love there. And so by the time I go to Harvard, I'd had thousands of hours of complex programming experience. I was so lucky in those things. Hi, I'm Stephen Levy. Today we spoke with Bill Gates about privilege, is desire to succeed, and how as a kid, he drove his parents insane. This is the big interview. I know that you've been thinking about doing a first person books and sort of autobiography for many, many years. I talked to you about it like 30 years ago, maybe. Why do they now? I hired Rob Goot to help me get out all the old facts, get the report card, and go talk to all of my friends and colleagues for really days. So yes, I'd say project we've been working on for some time. It was only about 18 months ago that we decided taking this first base of my life about 25 years, right? I started Microsoft in doing a book in where my parents, my upbringing, the luck of what I was exposed to. That was the whole story. Once that idea came up, I got quite enthused about it because we weren't getting into the current stuff where there's still a lot not in a figured out. I mean, the foundation schools are ongoing. Even Microsoft, although I play a modest role as an advisor, the AI stuff is of course very, very much ongoing. And so it was really fun to take this period and try and explain how amazing my father was, my mother, my sisters, just a huge variety of things that got me to be kind of forward looking and by the time on 20 years old. I found myself more in meshed in programming than the magic of what programming could do than almost anyone. So I love the way it's come out that we just do this first 25 year period, which we're calling source code and then another book can take the whole Microsoft story and then a different one can take the philanthropic work and contemplate that. Well, by doing that, by breaking that bad out, it becomes way more personal than anything that we've seen from you. People like me have been pounding you, asking you questions. When can these self-reflectives? And you've done it here. I know that you admire the I-Gasey book by J.R. Marron Jo. I don't have a lot of you considered him to be a co-writer. That thought you might have. No, we had our team pretty early on, but that's a great book. But you, in a way, went on there and you held a mirror to yourself. This is very much a bolding as a mom, like a coming of age to worry. And sometimes the mirror didn't which was such a flattering image did it. I mean, I had my some downs. I had conflicts with my parents. I had, you know, I was using Harvard computer time, and they were confused about what I was doing. The first customer you had myths, we had a complex contract, we ended up in a dispute, surprisingly with them. My relationship with Paul is a very central piece of how Microsoft comes together. And Paul and I are working together super well and then disagreeing. So yes, between my parents and Paul, you know, I had a lot of uncertainty, even though the software thing, and many experiences that made that just such a unique thing that, wow, why do I see this? One other people don't see it, but yeah, to, you know, hopefully a very human story. It's not a macular concept. Well, it is a human story. And I think one where it gets to very emotional ground. I remember I did a profile of you, I think in 1999, and your father told me a little bit about some of the stuff in here, and he said, you, your mother was traumatized by the situation. You wouldn't talk for days on end. You know, you say yourself that, you know, the things that really interested you were reading and math and being in size your own head. And in some ways, you were kind of your parents. So I think unrolling some instances like that. You seem a little remorseful. Well, I get both of my parents in each and their own way, a lot of credit for how they shaped me. You know, with my dad, it was much more setting an example of always being serious about his work. I'm sharing anecdotes with my mom. It was far more intense that, oh, you didn't get up here as soon as I wanted or your table manners weren't as good as I wanted. So yeah, in the case of my mom, I was often falling short. She did get me to interact with the adults that were around. And that was a skill that became quite valuable for me. So she helped complement my intense desire to study and understand things. But yeah, the tension between my mom and I was, you know, she was always pushing for me to do better and, you know, eventually proud of what I achieved. But that was a complex relationship. Very, you know, amazing. I mean, my mom was a phenomenal person. Not just her social skills or her ambition for herself, her husband and me, but just choose a special person. Clearly, there was a lot of love. But they were at their wits end to figure out what to do with you. Towards the end of the book, you say something that you'd say that if this were today, you would have been diagnosed, you said, probably, on the autism spectrum. What led you to that conclusion? When do you start thinking about that? Well, I know when I was going up this idea that I would go on talk with therapists. So it's actually quite an unusual thing and this guy, Dr. Cressy, who really got me thinking about, okay, what was I trying to achieve in this conflict with my parents that I really have some thought and my anger was I just trying to make trouble? That was, I think, quite unusual. But back then, the idea that kids were very different and some kind of interventions, you know, that just wasn't commonplace at all. I was clearly somewhat hyperactive. I could concentrate a great deal. You know, I think the fact I did get to see that therapist was good, who knows what it would have been like. Kids are much more looked over. The thing where I was able to go off to the computer center or even spent all that time alone, you know, even going out on those hikes, you know, people are protective enough. They might, you know, they might describe these epic crazy hikes. You know, you wouldn't think of sending a 12 year old or 13 year old today, they were super dangerous. Yeah, even though now you'd have a GPS track or... Well, is that realization sort of shaped you with your super curious person, curiosity is something that runs through this book? You know, have you, like, pursued the curiosity about that in terms of understanding yourself? But I do, even at this age, I love learning new things. And I view all of my work as kind of being a student and, you know, super lucky, not just the things I get to read, but, you know, these days you can learn so easily. And then I get access to experts. I mean, you know, when I'm confused about AI, you know, Sam Altman gets 10 people together and, you know, we sit and talk, you know, I'm very lucky that my career path is met with my deep curiosity, I've been able to maintain it. And I think it is part of my success is really wanting to understand things in a pretty deep way. Another thing which struck me reading the book is, you know, I knew you came from a well-off family. And something, again, you referred to it towards the end of the book. How much privilege is part of your story? You know, you say, you know, I was like a white nail that's in a privilege position. But your family was very well-off. Various parts, your father sort of like swips down, you know, and like legal help, and you get in trouble and Harvard need flies out across the country. And it seems that it's just another times, teachers would come in, even though you were inside your own head, people hide your back at every, at every turn. Well, there were teachers who put such a high percentage of their time into me versus the other students. I was so lucky in those things. And the fun thing is my parents were well-off, but compared to the kids at this private school that we were, I was below average. I mean, they had bigger houses and, you know, they had wealth. My dad was well-paid to be a lawyer, but we weren't a family that had wealth. So I managed to both have the benefit of being at that school. And actually have a little bit of a chip on my shoulder that, hey, you guys are so much better off. You know, your parents gave you a car. And you didn't have to work in the summer. But yes, you could hardly design a better childhood, you know, including a time-sharing computer term showing up when I'm 13 years old. And the high school scheduling, which is a super interesting now for the problem, where because I was good at math, they asked me. Yeah, you did this unbelievable scheduling thing for your school. Right, and the first time they asked me, I say, no, I don't know how to do that. And then six months later, when tragically the people who are working on it are in a plane crash, I've actually figured out how to do it. So the first serious algorithm was actually, you know, deciding when the classes would meet and who would be in which classes, which is a very kind of cool problem. And so, you know, then to have that, then to have TRW have this incredible project that was very state-of-the-art in terms of real time, liability, and to have the great programmers there, including Norton, and Brace Me, and say, yeah, you think you're good, but, you know, this code is not very good. So I think I'm going to answer you had when you were working on this project for TRW as a kid. Right, so I did like four times, where I thought, hey, I'm pretty good at programming, and then I would see they're given a hard task or cut feedback, and I said, no, there's another level there. So by the time I go to Harvard, you know, I've had thousands of hours of complex programming experience, and then, you know, when I get there, I get to do even more. So, yes, the fact that parents encouraged me as a male, the idea of doing all being weird like this was kind of okay, the school I went to, and that high school is a fantastic high school. I had at least five or six teachers who kind of saw a spark in me and really engaged with me. Mountain Cloudwell, and his book about Outlawyer says that the ingredients are like 10,000 hours. Certainly you've topped that by a big number in terms of programming, 10,000 hours of practice doing something. I guess a degree of time, timeliness, you know, which you just talked about. I still find that kind of unsatisfying. What makes Bill Gates bill Gates? Well, certainly, it's not just the circumstances, but that's gigantic. I mean, that eliminates people born in a different time, and many people who didn't get the education opportunities. Yes, there's still, you know, a few million kids who are in the same milieu, I am, and then it's okay, you know, seeing my father, you know, understanding the common sense of business, seeing a business like physio control, you know, that was up and down. You know, the early engagement digital equipment corporation, which, you know, to me was this bonded company, you know, the proof that it wasn't just mainframes. So those people embraced me. I mean, I got to know them in many phases, including once they offered me a job, just because I wanted that reinforcement. So yes, there's something about my desire to succeed in my skill set, you know, being forward looking, which, you know, my friend Kent Evans, who's in the book, helped really cement that. You know, Kent helped shape me as forward looking, amazing person. And then Paul's more off reading about the chip stuff, you know, I didn't read electronics, amazing. No, I'll have to Paul, showed me it, okay, then I did. But that's Paul. And it's actually pretty enough, because he's two years ahead of me. The fact that he seeks me out and says, you know, Bill, what is exponential improvement mean? And I say, are you kidding? I do. That is my exponential improvement is a very, very special thing that doesn't happen, except in rare cases. Paul also glued you on to LSD, which you talked about taking it a couple times. Steve Jobs would always say that was like a formative experience and helped that open up the case of design and his mind. I don't have that impression that you felt at it to be a life-changing experience. I think the batch that he got must have really been good for product design. And Mark and I mean, my gosh, this thing can I had that batch. You know, yeah, I did some crazy things when I was young and, you know, Paul deserved some, credit for that. But yeah, we did that together a few times. Eventually we gave it up by the time we get service about work. We're not doing that anymore. You also mentioned the famous time you got bus that was speeding us, meant the night and jail. I was hoping to learn more about that. You know, did that freak you out spending a night and jail? No, it was just kind of a funny thing. I mean, they thought it was strange to have somebody so young that had a nice car and you had a Porsche. You know, what was the story with this kid? You know, was I had drug dealer or something? I clearly didn't fit their normal pattern. And, you know, we kept enough cash around that Paul was able to come down and bail me out but took him a few hours together. See how they're set. I think this mug shot of me in Albuquerque because I got pulled over and didn't have my license. At the end of the book, you say that sometimes you look back and wish you were back again, where are you, where are when you were 13 years old and just like learning about everything. And you describe yourself at the time as someone which has lived largely inside your head. Talk about that. With all your success and all the access to the world, really, that you have, you look back and when a roll of tape back? Well, I've been so lucky that I'm not saying I wanna go back and change something but it was kind of amazing to live through that. Hey, I'm just this kid and all of us are the same. Okay, here's something I'm curious about. Here's some people to do it with me. That having a dream computer on every desk and every home, the importance of software to actually have it come completely true and get to work with, in this face of my life with Kent and with Paul. And I'm just meeting Steve Palmer at Harvard but he hasn't come to, I'm sure of all the hair that I got that. That'll be right to it. So that's the Microsoft, we're up in Seattle and I decide, boy, I can't run this thing myself. I need my friend who really gets business and management and people and so he comes in. So it was so magical and so incredible that I do kind of miss that wonderful thing where the whole thing was in doubt. There were days when I thought, oh, we are so messed up and other people were ahead of us. And who do we think we are to have these wild dreams and yet step by step, we build this incredible group of people. You know, as you know, the book again is, coming of age story, but you know, you talk about, you look back and say, how much we are shaped by who we are and we are like who we are. You know, you talk about saying, boy, I think some were more explicitly saying, you know, I was like a smart out like in school and you know, and that was a smart thing to do. And you talk about being, you know, pushing back about everyone and maybe think really the way you behave in your deposition. You know, the thing, a smart out there, you know, and you think I was a smart out like that lawyer. Now that's a smart out. Yeah. Not recalling the specifics in the interview is that it's very unlikely I would make a statement like that without some common understanding between myself and the reporter, what that term, which out of context is incredibly ambiguous, what it meant in the context of a per series of questions and just to be sure I understand it. What you're saying is that you don't remember what the definition was and you don't even remember that there was a definition, but you believe there must have been a definition or you wouldn't have been using these words, that fair. There must have been a common understanding. I wouldn't say a definition. There's a certain clever boy, you know, shortcut, use of sarcasm that allows you to communicate efficiently, it can be kind of funny. And yes, that whole kind of sparring that, you know, sitting at night at Harvard, talking to each other, that kind of dialogue doesn't work when you're managing people. Or even my skill of procrastination, which at Harvard, you know, that was my personal position and what's happening. I don't work in these class to away. So yeah, there's a lot of habits of being a young, trying to be a cool, maybe not succeeding, but trying to be a cool student, that I actually had to break those habits. Procrastination, you know, being super clever and kind of sarcastic, tearing somebody's argument apart. I mean, yes, the underlying skill is actually worthwhile. But knowing not to deploy it as the, you know, kind of go to approach, which when I was a student, you know, was kind of my whole way of engaging with other people. You know, we have the one anecdote, man, right, told this professor, how wrong he was. And I was just so, so certain of myself, you were wrong. I ended five minutes after I attacked him, I realized, oh God, there's a reason of why it actually comes back in his, his thing was completely right. And I was completely wrong. That was a helpful experience because the guy was so nice about it and I was so out of line. One final question, did the people really change? No, I think you moderate and you become wiser and you grow. But the idea of am I still pretty much that same kind of hyperactive, curious, maybe I configured something this out that other people can't figure out. And if I do figure it out, what am I going to do about it? Who do I work with on this? I am still 95% that same person. Well, thanks for watching. Thank you.